#summary How to install and use this program without installing system-wide.
#labels Phase-Implementation,Phase-Deploy,Phase-Support

= Introduction =

If you don't have root-access on a host but would still like to use this program, you can do that, but it requires a bit more configuration.  This guide will cover the basics needed to get you up and running.

This guide assumes that you have already [HOWTO_Install downloaded and compiled] the project from source.

= Steps =

 # Make a direcrory to keep the required binaries and configuration in your home directory.  Here are some suggestions:
{{{
  mkdir -p ~/.ash/bin  # For binaries.
  mkdir -p ~/.ash/conf  # For configuration files.
  mkdir -p ~/.ash/lib  # For shell library code.
}}}
 # Copy the compiled binaries into the local binary directory.
{{{
  cp -a /tmp/ash-src/files/usr/local/bin/* ~/.ash/bin
}}}
 # Copy the required config files into the local configuration directory.
{{{
  cp -a /tmp/ash-src/files/etc/ash/* ~/.ash/conf
}}}
 # Copy the required shell library code into the local lib directory.
{{{
  cp -a /tmp/ash-src/files/usr/lib/advanced_shell_history/* ~/.ash/lib
}}}
 # Edit your local configuration file {{{~/.ash/conf/ash.conf}}} to set this value.
{{{
  #
  # Setup
  #
  ASH_CFG_LIB='~/.ash/lib'
}}}
 # Add the following to your shell resource file:
{{{
  export ASH_CFG="~/.ash/ash.conf"
  export PATH="${PATH}:~/.ash/bin"
  source ~/.ash/lib/bash
}}}
 # Confirm that this works as expected by testing in a new terminal window.  Open a terminal window and execute the following:
{{{
  cd /
  ls -l
  ash_query -q CWD  # You should see the two commands above.
}}}
 # Done!  You can now explore the [HOWTO_Configure advanced configuration options.]

= [HOWTO_Configure Next] =

Explore the [HOWTO_Configure advanced configuration options] and customize what is logged or not logged.